# Comparative-analysis-of-published-chargemasters-for-IR-procedures-across-the-United-States
Purpose: The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) mandated all hospitals in the US to follow pricing transparency regulation to disclose payer-specific prices of healthcare services to provide more effective and economical healthcare.  We evaluate published price variations in the cost of IR procedures across different hospitals across the USA. In addition, the necessity for a better understanding of IR costs through increased price transparency and approaches such as time-driven activity-based costing has been emphasized in recent editorials. 

Materials and methods: We extracted the chargemasters (CDMs) of each hospital in the United States using web scraping. Thereafter we saved the extracted chargemaster using a spider script in a Gitlab version controlled repository. We collected data from 31,032 hospitals across 50 states. Of these, a total of 46 procedures were reviewed by an Interventional Radiologist (IR) and coded to be relevant. For analysis, we determined the average overall cost of all IR procedures in each state and the average cost of each IR procedure across different states. The Kruskal-Wallis test was applied to find significant differences between the cost of IR procedures across each state. Lastly, we visualized the price differences across states using a choropleth map.

Results: IR procedures are poorly coded and grouped in broad disease categories in chargemasters, compared to detailed cardiac and neurointerventional procedures. It is difficult to obtain the cost of standard outpatient IR procedures like UFE or other interventions. The average overall cost of all IR procedures was high in Alaska (mean = $34.2878k, n=3) and Maryland (mean = $17.568k, n=47), followed by California ($11.9598k, n=286). When comparing the average cost of each IR procedure across states, we found that California and Hawaii had the highest prices, followed by Nevada, Oregon, Washington, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. States like Vermont, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, and Kansas, on the other hand, had low IR procedure costs. Overall, there are significant differences in prices between the States (χ2 = 1168.5, df = 48, p-value < 2.2e-16). 

Conclusion: IR needs to invest in standardizing representation of procedures to improve access specially with investment of ambulatory surgical centers. Current published CDMs have little benefit to patients exploring treatment options for IR procedures.
